9/1/2026

1. Talk about a time where you had to accept or seek help for a problem.

Situation: When I was working on an online checkout system for the CometCupboard, I was tasked by our team lead with making an online queue for the check in process. 

Task: This queue system involved modifying the permissions of the user during different stages of the queue so that they could only access the relevant content for their place in line.

Action: I had no experience at this time with working on permissions but did my best to create a working queue system.
        While I created something that worked on my machine, it didn't work anywhere else and so I had to go to the team lead who walked me through what I had done well and wrong.
        I was shown how my idea was correct but where I had been working was wrong and that I could solve the problem much more simply by modifying existing permission setters.

Result: As a result, the way I think about reusing and modifying functions is different now and I believe I am all the better for it.

-------------------------------------------------------------------
2. Discuss a time where you needed to work with a group on a issue.

Situation: During my first project for a group called the Legacy Retirement Community I was put on a project with a fellow Sophomore where we worked both together and apart.
           During this part of our database schema was unknowingly deleted which resulted in the application crashing when I tried to run it after migration.

Task: The two of us and our team lead were assigned to figure out why the application was crashing and then to fix it. 

Action: While we were looking into the issue, we were sending each other either console logs to follow or avenues to research.
        While neither myself nor the Sophomore I was working with had any idea what was wrong or what a database schema was, we worked to augment each other's knowledge to debug the error.
        Eventually, through the work done together I was able to not only discover the issue, but resolve it as well through looking at and finally understanding the idea of schemas.

Result: With this resolved another teammate and I were able to make a new merge and get our application back up.
        Furthermore I learned a lot about not just database schemas but also how to work in a group to get the most out of it.

-------------------------------------------------------------------
3. Give an example where you disagreed with a teammate or were in conflict with a teammate.

Situation: The CometCupboard project, at the time of my joining, was a project about two years in the making that had seen substantial redesign and the team lead had been there for a long time.
           The team lead was very attached to the project and thus a lot of his communication about changes and response to work felt aggressive.

Task: This made working with my team lead or communicating with him in any way difficult and despite the difficult I wanted to talk with him about.

Action: I ended up talking with him before understanding his position and what he had promised the client in order to really understand why he acted the way he did.
        It took a couple of talks with both him and those around him to understand why he lead the way that he did and what he wanted to get out of the project. 
        Sharing my view also impacted the way he talked with other members of the team and how he presented himself

Result: While things softened, there was still friction. However, I understood why it was there and was more willing to follow along.
        I understand that not everyone is going to get along amazingly, but there is reason for conflict and it showed me how to better conduct myself in other groups.

-------------------------------------------------------------------
4. Describe how you handle problems were the solution is not immediately obvious.

Situation: I have had several projects both in an academic setting and project based setting where this has applied. 

Task: For example, one of my classes wanted us to create what amount to a breadth first search using stacks to find the shortest path between two points. 

Action: At the time, I was newer to programming and did not understand how to approach this and how to apply stacks to this problem.
        However, when faced with a problem I do not understand, I make some solution first and then refine it, thinking around what already exists.
        I believe my first solution was to try passing the whole stack down the path and then back up again which didn't work.

Result: Eventually, thinking both from starting at the front and the end with my solution I arrived at the correct answer. 
        Essentially, I always try to have something written and the refine it by seeing where the initial solution fails.

-------------------------------------------------------------------
5. Talk about a time when you needed to quickly learn an unfamiliar skill or technology.

Situation: During my time developing an application called BiteSync I was, at one point, the only frontend developer working with one backend developer.
           We each had our own domain of the project we worked on and we responded to each other's issues and progress to move the project forward. 

Task: During this time period, he took a vacation around the time I discovered that one of the api endpoints needed to return additional data. 

Action: I had not worked with a backend ever at this point and I didn't want to wait for him to get back so I did my best to figure out how to modify the backend.
        Through both research and reviewing the code he had previously written, I managed to get the backend to return the data I needed.

Result: My modification did need review and changes upon my teammates return, but it solved the immediate problem and kept me from bottle neck during the project.

-------------------------------------------------------------------
6. Tell me about a time where your solution to a problem didn't work out. What happened and what was your response?

Situation: For my senior capstone project, a Road Report AI, I was tasked with data Engineering. 

Task: I was to take a bunch of crash data and weather data and return history for when car crashes did and did not happen.

Action: For the weather I used a source that took weather airports as they were recording weather the had for sure happened as opposed to speculation.
        I used this for a while and it took a lot of preprocessing to get to work the way I needed it to. However, I did not test how broad the source was.
        Eventually I came to the conclusion that it would not provide the amount of data I needed ot to provide, only one location for an extremely large area.
        This was not useable and I had to pivot to a source called OpenMeteo that provided any feasible location but was more speculative.

Result: This boosted the ability of the model to predict and taught me about testing my tools before I begin a task.

-------------------------------------------------------------------
7. Discuss a time where you needed to meet a deadline and how you handled it.

Situation: For my senior capstone project I was the lead data engineer working to build training data for the AI model that would predict road safety.

Task: The training data included automating the transformation of crash data, getting third party weather data, transforming weather data, creating negative samples, and then reducing the data for all of Texas.

Action: While initially I was confident in my ability to produce all of these things, scope creep and technical issues arose. 
        With three weeks left, I had only managed to make the rough draft of training data with a already pre-formatted crash data but appropriate weather data.
        At this time, I realized I needed to prioritize what I could get done before the deadline beyond what should be done. 
        I ended up prioritizing a workable MVP for the presentation that was due which meant I had to cut a lot of scope including expanding the System for all of Texas and cutting the large amount of data generated.

Result: While it was not the most fleshed out system, it worked for the project and we received a good enough grade for the project. It taught me to get done with what is essential and then expand.

-------------------------------------------------------------------
8. Do you prefer working in a team or solo? Explain. 

Situation: I prefer working with a team. During my BiteSync project I was at one point the frontend lead with another person as backend lead.

Task: I was responsible for making the application functional to the user while he was responsible for returning data and ensuring that I had things to present the user.

Action: During this time we both had planned tasks to do, but would encounter issues or more data we needed from the other during development.
        We could easily contact each other and ask the other to work on tasks that would aid in our own task.
        This allowed us move quickly though the additions needed to get out application ready for the Office of Graduate Education, our client.

Result: Working with a partner that could modify their end allowed for more to get done in a time frame and prevented one of us from completely stalling on part of a project. 

-------------------------------------------------------------------
9. Talk about a time where you needed to lead or took charge during a group setting. 

Situation: When I was working on BiteSync, during it's beginnings there were six people working on the team, two for frontend, two for testing, two for backend.
           I was not the leader during this time but just the frontend lead.

Task: In the beginning phases of the project we had to do a lot of documentation to get the project off the group and the group stalled a lot in this phase.

Action: The group deliberated a lot about what the best way to go about developing the project and how we might best be able to respond to changes.
        While this was worthwhile to a degree as it kept the group on track, at some point it became overbearing and prevented us from moving forward.
        I sat down with the group and lead the team meet for the first time to ensure that all the details could get hammered out so forward progress could being.
        These ended up not being perfect documents, but provided us a base to being working.

Result: Many needed to be rewritten during development but provided a ground to move forward on as opposed to waiting several more days and becoming behind schedule.

-------------------------------------------------------------------
10. Give an example of when you failed and how you reacted to it. 

Situation: During an algorithms class, test cases were introduced and were our primary way on being graded for our projects.
           During my freshmen year this was new to me and while I approached code thinking about edge cases to a degree, not nearly as much as I needed to.

Task: For the first assignment we needed to create some sorting algorithm and I got to work.

Action: I got to work the way I had been working prior to needing to worry about test cases which was mostly just solving the major issue.
        However, when test cases were released, I found that my code did not account for many of them and the grade would result on passing these test cases as well as several hidden ones
        Around this time I found other people working on this assignment that I could collaborate with to figure out what test cases might be.
        Working with this people and talking allowed us to come up with test cases that were not already given to us and improved the quality of all of our solutions.

Result: Having this group of others helping me transform the way I thought made these future test cases easier to discover and think about.   